docs: adr 011 total escrow state entry (#3641)
cosmos/ibc-go: docs/architecture/adr-011-transfer-total-escrow-state-entry.md

> # ADR 011: ICS-20 state entry for total amount of tokens in escrow

Reviewer: mega nit: should we include `transfer` in the title?

```suggestion
# ADR 011: ICS-20 transfer state entry for total amount of tokens in escrow
```

## Changelog

* 2023-05-24: Initial draft

## Status

Accepted and applied in v7.1 of ibc-go

## Context

> Every ICS-20 transfer channel has its own escrow bank account. This account is used to lock tokens that are transferred out of a chain that acts as source of the tokens (i.e. when the tokens being transferred are not returning to the originating chain). This design makes it easy to query the balance of the escrow accounts and find out the total amount of tokens in escrow in a particular channel. However, there are use cases where it would be useful to determine the total escrowed amount of a given denomination across all channels where those tokens have been transferred out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Every ICS-20 transfer channel has its own escrow bank account. This account is used to lock tokens that are transferred out of a chain that acts as the source of the tokens (i.e. when the tokens being transferred have not returned to the originating chain). This design makes it easy to query the balance of the escrow accounts and find out the total amount of tokens in escrow in a particular channel. However, there are use cases where it would be useful to determine the total escrowed amount of a given denomination across all channels where those tokens have been transferred out.
```

> Every ICS-20 transfer channel has its own escrow bank account. This account is used to lock tokens that are transferred out of a chain that acts as source of the tokens (i.e. when the tokens being transferred are not returning to the originating chain). This design makes it easy to query the balance of the escrow accounts and find out the total amount of tokens in escrow in a particular channel. However, there are use cases where it would be useful to figure out the total amount of a given denomination that is in escrow across all the escrow accounts of the channels where those tokens have been transferred out.

Reviewer: maybe this reads a little better (slightly less wordy)

```suggestion
Every ICS-20 transfer channel has its own escrow bank account. This account is used to lock tokens that are transferred out of a chain that acts as source of the tokens (i.e. when the tokens being transferred are not returning to the originating chain). This design makes it easy to query the balance of the escrow accounts and find out the total amount of tokens in escrow in a particular channel. However, there are use cases where it would be useful to determine the total escrowed amount of a given denomination across all channels where those tokens have been transferred out.
```

> For example: assuming that the are three channels between Cosmos Hub to Osmosis and 10 ATOM have been transferred from the Cosmos Hub to Osmosis on each of those channels, then we would like to know that 30 ATOM have been transferred (i.e. are locked in the escrow accounts of each channel) without needing to iterate over each escrow account to add up the balances of each.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example: assuming that there are three channels between Cosmos Hub to Osmosis and 10 ATOM have been transferred from the Cosmos Hub to Osmosis on each of those channels, then we would like to know that 30 ATOM have been transferred (i.e. are locked in the escrow accounts of each channel) without needing to iterate over each escrow account to add up the balances of each.
```

For a sample use case where this feature would be useful, please refer to Osmosis' rate limiting use case described in [#2664](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/issues/2664).

## Decision

### State entry denom -> amount

The total amount of tokens in escrow (across all transfer channels) for a given denomination is stored in state in an entry keyed by the denomination: `totalEscrowForDenom/{denom}`.

### Panic if amount is negative

If a negative amount is ever attempted to be stored, then the keeper function will panic:

```go
if coin.Amount.IsNegative() {
  panic(fmt.Sprintf("amount cannot be negative: %s", coin.Amount))
}
```

### Delete state entry if amount is zero

> When setting the amount for a particular denomination, the value might be zero if all tokens that were trasferred out of the chain have come back. If this happens, then the state entry for this particular denomination will be deleted, since Cosmos SDK's `x/bank` module prunes any non-zero balances:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When setting the amount for a particular denomination, the value might be zero if all tokens that were transferred out of the chain have been transferred back. If this happens, then the state entry for this particular denomination will be deleted, since Cosmos SDK's `x/bank` module prunes any non-zero balances:
```

// update the total escrow by deducting the unescrowed token from the current total escrow.
func (k Keeper) unescrowToken(ctx sdk.Context, escrowAddress, receiver sdk.AccAddress, token sdk.Coin) error {
  if err := k.bankKeeper.SendCoins(ctx, escrowAddress, receiver, sdk.NewCoins(token)); err != nil {
    // NOTE: this error is only expected to occur given an unexpected bug or a malicious
    // counterparty module. The bug may occur in bank or any part of the code that allows
    // the escrow address to be drained. A malicious counterparty module could drain the
    // escrow address by allowing more tokens to be sent back then were escrowed.
    return errorsmod.Wrap(err, "unable to unescrow tokens, this may be caused by a malicious counterparty module or a bug: please open an issue on counterparty module")
  }

  // track the total amount in escrow keyed by denomination to allow for efficient iteration
  currentTotalEscrow := k.GetTotalEscrowForDenom(ctx, token.GetDenom())
  newTotalEscrow := currentTotalEscrow.Sub(token)
  k.SetTotalEscrowForDenom(ctx, newTotalEscrow)

  return nil
}
```

> When tokens need to be escrowed in `sendTransfer`, then `escrowToken` is called; when tokens need to be unescrowed when executing the `OnRecvPacket`, `OnAcknowledgementPacket` or `OnTimeoutPacket` callbacks, then `unescrowToken` is called.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When tokens need to be escrowed in `sendTransfer`, then `escrowToken` is called; when tokens need to be unescrowed on execution of the `OnRecvPacket`, `OnAcknowledgementPacket` or `OnTimeoutPacket` callbacks, then `unescrowToken` is called.
```
